.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was extracted from hal/components/clarke2.comp using halcompile.g.
.\" Modify the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************

.TH CLARKE2 "9" "2025-05-27" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.SH NAME

clarke2 \- Two input version of Clarke transform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt clarke2 [count=\fIN\fB|names=\fIname1\fB[,\fIname2...\fB]]
.SH DESCRIPTION

The Clarke transform can be used to translate a vector
quantity from a three phase system (three components 120 degrees
apart) to a two phase Cartesian system.
.P
\fBclarke2\fR implements
a special case of the Clarke transform, which only needs two of the
three input phases.  In a three wire three phase system, the sum of the
three phase currents or voltages must always be zero.  As a result only
two of the three are needed to completely define the current or voltage.
\fBclarke2\fR assumes that the sum is zero, so it only uses phases A and
B of the input.  Since the H (homopolar) output will always be zero in
this case, it is not generated.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBclarke2.\fIN\fB\fR (requires a floating-point thread)

.SH PINS
.TP
.B clarke2.\fIN\fB.a\fR float in \fR
.br
.ns
.TP
.B clarke2.\fIN\fB.b\fR float in \fR
first two phases of three phase input
.TP
.B clarke2.\fIN\fB.x\fR float out \fR
.br
.ns
.TP
.B clarke2.\fIN\fB.y\fR float out \fR
cartesian components of output
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBclarke3\fR(9) for the general case, \fBclarkeinv\fR(9) for
the inverse transform.
.SH AUTHOR

John Kasunich
.SH LICENSE

GPL
