.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was extracted from hal/components/demux.comp using halcompile.g.
.\" Modify the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************

.TH DEMUX "9" "2025-05-27" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.SH NAME

demux \- Select one of several output pins by integer and/or or individual bits.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt demux [count=\fIN\fB|names=\fIname1\fB[,\fIname2...\fB]] [personality=\fIP1,P2,...\fB]
.SH DESCRIPTION

This component creates a number of output bits defined
by the "personality" command-line parameter. One of these bits will be
set based on interpreting the bit-inputs as a binary number and then
adding on the integer input. Most uses will use only one
or the other, but it is possible to use the bits as a ""shift"" if
required.
An optional operating mode is enabled by setting the "bargraph"
parameter to true, in this case all bits up to the selected bit will be
set, as might be required for an LED bargraph display.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBdemux.\fIN\fB\fR (requires a floating-point thread)

.SH PINS
.TP
.B demux.\fIN\fB.sel-bit-\fIMM\fB\fR bit in  (MM=00..04) \fR
Binary-number bit selectors
.TP
.B demux.\fIN\fB.sel-u32\fR u32 in \fR
Integer selection input
.TP
.B demux.\fIN\fB.out-\fIMM\fB\fR bit out  (MM=00..personality) \fR
The set of output bits
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B demux.\fIN\fB.bargraph\fR bit rw \fR(default: \fI0\fR)
.SH SEE ALSO

\fBselect8\fR(9)
.SH AUTHOR

Andy Pugh
.SH LICENSE

GPL 2+
