.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was extracted from hal/components/sim_home_switch.comp using halcompile.g.
.\" Modify the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************

.TH SIM_HOME_SWITCH "9" "2025-05-27" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.SH NAME

sim_home_switch \- Home switch simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt sim_home_switch [count=\fIN\fB|names=\fIname1\fB[,\fIname2...\fB]]
.SH DESCRIPTION


After tripping home switch, travel in opposite direction is
required (amount set by the hysteresis pin).
A pin (index-enable) is provided for use when
\fB[JOINT_n]HOME_USE_INDEX\fR is specified to reset
the I/O pin \fBjoint.N.index-enable\fR.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBsim-home-switch.\fIN\fB\fR (requires a floating-point thread)

.SH PINS
.TP
.B sim-home-switch.\fIN\fB.cur-pos\fR float in \fR
Current position (typically: joint.n.motor-pos-fb)
.TP
.B sim-home-switch.\fIN\fB.home-pos\fR float in \fR(default: \fI1\fR)
Home switch position
.TP
.B sim-home-switch.\fIN\fB.hysteresis\fR float in \fR(default: \fI0.1\fR)
Travel required to backoff (hysteresis)
.TP
.B sim-home-switch.\fIN\fB.home-sw\fR bit out \fR
Home switch activated
.TP
.B sim-home-switch.\fIN\fB.index-enable\fR bit io \fR
typ: connect to joint.N.index-enable
.TP
.B sim-home-switch.\fIN\fB.index-delay-ms\fR float in \fR(default: \fI10\fR)
delay in msec to reset index-enable
.SH AUTHOR

Dewey Garrett
.SH LICENSE

GPL
