.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: utf-8 -*-
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was extracted from hal/user_comps/wj200_vfd/wj200_vfd.comp using halcompile.g.
.\" Modify the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************

.TH WJ200_VFD "1" "2025-05-27" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.SH NAME

wj200_vfd \- Hitachi wj200 modbus driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wj200_vfd
.SH PINS
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.commanded-frequency\fR float in \fR
Frequency of vfd (scaled to RPM)
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.motor-frequency\fR float out \fR
Motor's actual frequency (scaled to RPM)
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.motor-reverse\fR bit out \fR
1 when actually turning in reverse
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.reverse\fR bit in \fR
1 when reverse 0 when forward
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.run\fR bit in \fR
run the vfd
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.enable\fR bit in \fR
1 to enable the vfd. 0 will remote trip the vfd, thereby disabling it.
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.is-running\fR bit out \fR
1 when running
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.is-at-speed\fR bit out \fR
1 when running at assigned frequency
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.is-stopped\fR bit out \fR
1 when stopped
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.is-ready\fR bit out \fR
1 when vfd is ready to run
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.is-alarm\fR bit out \fR
1 when vfd alarm is set
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.motor-current\fR float out \fR
Output current in amps
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.heatsink-temp\fR float out \fR
Temperature of drive heatsink
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.watchdog-out\fR bit out \fR
Alternates between 1 and 0 after every update cycle. Feed into a watchdog component to ensure vfd driver is communicating with the vfd properly.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.mbslaveaddr\fR u32 rw \fR
Modbus slave address
.TP
.B wj200-vfd.\fIN\fB.frequency-scale\fR float rw \fR(default: \fI1\fR)
RPM / frequency, default 1
.SH LICENSE

GPLv2 or greater
